Add log file rotation (#127667)
kubernetes/kubernetes: staging/src/k8s.io/component-base/logs/kube-log-runner/README.md

- Nowadays, the `--log-file` parameter is deprecated for Kubernetes components
  and should not be used anymore. `kube-log-runner` is a direct replacement.

> what are the flags?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Flags
```

Perhaps this should be `##` - we'll see.

- -enable-flush
  The `-enable-flush` flag is an optional boolean flag that controls whether the 
  log file content is periodically flushed to disk.

  Type: Boolean
  
  Default: false (flushing disabled)
  
  Usage: When -enable-flush is set to true, the log file is flushed every 5 seconds, 
  ensuring that recent log entries are written to disk in near real-time. This is 

>   particularly useful when users need to monitor logs as they are generated, without delay.

Reviewer: I don't think that's what the code does. To the best of my knowledge, there is no buffering in the Go IO stack. As soon as Go writes data, it is immediately visible to others who have that file open.

```console
$ go doc os.File.Sync
package os // import "os"

func (f *File) Sync() error
    Sync commits the current contents of the file to stable storage. Typically,
    this means flushing the file system's in-memory copy of recently written
    data to disk.
```

What this does is prevent data loss in case of a system crash.

Is that really what you need?

Author: The above README may not accurate for all scenerio. Here are the tests I have done (with no-flush or the original kube-log-runner). kube-log-runner start the following executables: (1): under linux, the bash :

while true; do
    echo -n "hello"
    sleep 1 # Sleep for 100 milliseconds
done

(2): under windows, the powershell "while ($true) {
    Write-Host -NoNewline "hello"
    Start-Sleep -Milliseconds 100
}"

(a): if there are readings of the log file, for both linux and windows, looks that the log file can be refreshed in time
(b): If there is no reading of the log file, but checking the log file through "ls -al" or "dir", it looks that under linux, the log file size can be refreshed in time, while under windows, the log file size will keep unchanged while not be able to refresh in time.

These test results consist with what I have done for the kubelet logging (through kube-log-runner) under windows. the log file will keep in size 0 for some time until the file is open for read. This will cause some confusion. Without the kube-log-runner, I had also hardcoded the klog file for kubelet to output to a specific path for my test in the beginning, during that test, the klog will be able to refresh the log file (under windows)

Author: So I would think this parameter will be helpful for some scenarios. I can update the REAME for clarification if you would agree

Reviewer: So the behavior on Windows is different than the behavior on Linux, which justifies including this feature.

But this difference needs to be included in the documentation. Linux users probably *shouldn't* use flushing because it has a negative effect on system performance (flushing the page cache) while Windows users probably *should* use it, for the reason that you pointed out.

  entries are written to disk in near real-time, which is particularly useful for 
  users who need to monitor logs as they are generated without delay.

- -log-file-size
  The `-log-file-size` flag is an optional string flag that sets a size limit for 
  the log file, triggering automatic log rotation when the specified size is reached.
  This is especially useful in production environments where the log file may become
  too large to view effectively.

  Type: String (expects a value in Resource.Quantity format, such as 10M or 500K)

  Default: "0" (disabled, no automatic rotation of log files)

  Usage: When set to a positive value, the log file will rotate upon reaching the specified 
  size limit. The current log file’s contents will be saved to a backup file, and a new log 
  file will be created at the path specified by the `-log-file` flag, ready for future log entries.

  Backup File Naming Convention:
    <original-file-name>-<timestamp><file-extension>
    <original-file-name>: The name of the original log file, without the file extension.
    <timestamp>: A timestamp is added to each backup file’s name to uniquely identify it based on the time it was created.

>     <file-extension>: The original file’s extension (e.g., .log) remains unchanged.

Author: thanks for the catching, will update

- Nowadays, the `--log-file` parameter is deprecated for Kubernetes components
  and should not be used anymore. `kube-log-runner` is a direct replacement.

## Flags

> - -enable-flush

Author: Will add the flush-period (in seconds) as a parameter

  The `-enable-flush` flag is an optional boolean flag that controls whether the 
  log file content is periodically flushed to disk.

  Type: Boolean
  
  Default: false (flushing disabled)
  
  Usage: When set to true, the log file is flushed every 5 seconds. 
  While this may not be necessary on Linux, on Windows, it ensures that recent log 
  entries are written to disk in near real-time, which is particularly useful for 
  users who need to monitor logs as they are generated without delay.

- -log-file-size
  The `-log-file-size` flag is an optional string flag that sets a size limit for 
  the log file, triggering automatic log rotation when the specified size is reached.
  This is especially useful in production environments where the log file may become

>   too large to view effectively.

Author: updated

  Type: String (expects a value in Resource.Quantity format, such as 10M or 500K)

  Default: "0" (disabled, no automatic rotation of log files)

  Usage: When set to a positive value, the log file will rotate upon reaching the specified 
  size limit. The current log file’s contents will be saved to a backup file, and a new log 
  file will be created at the path specified by the `-log-file` flag, ready for future log entries.

  Backup File Naming Convention:
    `<original-file-name>-<timestamp><file-extension>`.
    `<original-file-name>`: The name of the original log file, without the file extension.
    `<timestamp>`: A timestamp is added to each backup file’s name to uniquely identify it
    based on the time it was created. The timestamp follows the format "20060102-150405".
    For example, a backup created on June 2, 2006, at 3:04:05 PM would include this timestamp.
    `<file-extension>`: The original file’s extension (e.g., .log) remains unchanged.

>   This naming convention ensures easy organization and retrieval of rotated log files based on their creation time.

Author: updated

    `<original-file-name>-<timestamp><file-extension>`.
    * `<original-file-name>`: The name of the original log file, without the file extension.
    * `<timestamp>`: A timestamp is added to each backup file’s name to uniquely identify it
    based on the time it was created. The timestamp follows the format "20060102-150405".
    For example, a backup created on June 2, 2006, at 3:04:05 PM would include this timestamp.
    * `<file-extension>`: The original file’s extension (e.g., .log) remains unchanged.
  This naming convention ensures easy organization and retrieval of rotated log files based on their creation time.

- -log-file-age
  The `-log-file-age` flag is an optional time duration setting that defines how long 
  old backup log files are retained. This flag is used alongside log rotation (enabled 
  by setting a positive value for -log-file-size) to help manage storage by removing 
  outdated backup logs.

  Type: Duration
  
  Default: 0 (disabled, no automatic deletion of backup files)
  
  Usage: When -log-file-age is set to a positive duration (e.g., 24h for 24 hours) 
  and log rotation is enabled, backup log files will be automatically deleted if 

>   their last modification time is older than the specified duration from the current time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  the time when they were created (as encoded in the file name)
  is older than the specified duration from the current time.
```

"creation time" and "modification time" are attributes of the filesystem entry. That "modification time" is not used by the code.

# Copy into log file and print to stdout (same as 2>&1 | tee -a /tmp/log).
kube-log-runner -log-file=/tmp/log -also-stdout echo "hello world"

> # Copy into log file and print to stdout (same as 2>&1 | tee -a /tmp/log), will flush the logging file in 5s, rotate the log file when its size exceedes 10 MB

Author: updated

kube-log-runner -enable-flush=true -log-file=/tmp/log -log-file-size=10M -also-stdout echo "hello world"

> # Copy into log file and print to stdout (same as 2>&1 | tee -a /tmp/log), will flush the logging file in 5s, rotate the log file when its size exceedes 10 MB, and clean up old rotated log files when their age are older than 168h (7 days)

Author: updated
